docs/UserGuide.adoc, before:

= ePiggy - User Guide
:site-section: UserGuide
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:toc-title:
:toc-placement: preamble
:sectnums:
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
:xrefstyle: full
:experimental:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
endif::[]
:repoURL: https://github.com/CS2103-AY1819S2-W17-4/main

image::userguide.png[width="700"]

By: `Team A+ for CS2103T`       Since: `Feb 2019`      Last Updated: `April 2019`     Licence: `MIT`

== Introduction

image::userguideintroduction.gif[width="200", role="center"]

Welcome to *_ePiggy_*! *_ePiggy_* is a desktop application designed to inculcate good spending habits in students. +
Managing money is made much simpler for you with a simple interface and simple commands!
At the same time, *_ePiggy_* offers everything you need to cultivate good spending habits before
entering the workforce, from tracking expenses and managing budgets to setting goals! +

Interested? Click on the <<Quick Start>> to get started!

== Quick Start
To start using ePiggy, simply follow these steps::
1. Ensure you have Java version `9` or later installed on your computer. +
2. Download the latest *`ePiggy.jar`* file from link:{repoURL}/releases[here]. +
3. Copy the file to the folder which you want to use as the home folder for your Expense Tracker. +
4. Double-click the *`ePiggy.jar`* file to start the app. +
5. The GUI will appear as per below upon launch.

image::Ui.png[width="760"]
_Figure 1. The user interface upon launch of application_

*Some sample commands you can try:*

* `addExpense n/Chicken Rice $/4 t/dinner` +
This command adds a new expense of $4 for Chicken Rice today.
* `addAllowance n/From Mum $/20` +
This command adds a new allowance of $20 tagged as 'From Mum'.
* `addBudget $/500 p/28 d/01/02/2019` +
This command adds a budget of $500 from 1st February 2019 to 28th February 2019 (28 days).

[[Features]]
== Features

====
*Command Format*

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be entered by the user. +
** E.g. For `addExpense n/EXPENSE_NAME`, `EXPENSE_NAME` is a parameter which can be used as `addExpense n/Chicken Rice`.
* Items in square brackets are optional. +
** E.g `n/EXPENSE_NAME [t/TAG]` can be used as `n/Chicken Rice t/School` or as `n/Chicken Rice`.
* Items with `…`​ after them can be used multiple times including zero times. +
** E.g. `[t/TAG]...` can be used as `{nbsp}` (i.e. 0 times), `t/school` (1 time), `t/hawker t/school` (2 times) etc.
* Parameters can be in any order. +
** E.g. If the command specifies `n/EXPENSE_NAME $/COST`, `$/COST n/EXPENSE_NAME` is also acceptable.
====

=== Basic Features
// tag::autocomplete[]
==== Auto complete :
Enter the first few letters of the command, and then press `Tab` key on the keyboard to auto complete the command. +
If the completed command is not what you want, delete the command. Enter the same letters again, and press `Tab`. Another command will show if the letters match another command. +

Example: enter letter 'a' and then press `Tab`, the command "addExpense n/ $/ t/ d/ " will show.

Delete the command, enter 'a' again and press `Tab`, the addBudget or addAllowance command will show.

[NOTE]
Enter 'as' and press `Tab`, *nothing will happen* because 'as' does not match any prefix of the command. Autocomplete does *not support
alias* and is *non-case sensitive*.

// end::autocomplete[]
==== Viewing help : `help`
Lists all the user commands with their syntax and descriptions. +
*Alias:* `hp` +
*Format:* `help`

==== Adding an expense : `addExpense`

Adds a new expense record to the Expense Tracker. +
*Alias:* `ae` +
*Format:* `addExpense n/EXPENSE_NAME $/COST [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +


Examples:

* `addExpense n/Chicken rice set $/5 t/Food d/21/02/2019` +
Adds an expense for a $5 chicken rice set, tagged as Food with the date as 21/02/2019.

* `addExpense n/Chicken rice set $/5 t/Food` +
Adds an expense for a $5 chicken rice set, tagged as Food dated as the current date, by default.

==== Editing an expense : `editExpense`

Edits an existing expense in ePiggy at a specific `*INDEX`* . +
The *`INDEX`* refers to the number in the displayed Expenses List which is next to the name of the expense. Existing values of
the expense will be changed according to the value of the parameters. +
*Alias:* `ee` +
*Format:* `editExpense INDEX [n/EXPENSE_NAME] [$/COST] [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +


Examples:

* `editExpense 1 n/Pen $1 t/Supplies` +
Edits the name, cost and tag of the first expense in the Expense List to ‘Pen’, ‘$1’ and ‘Supplies’ respectively.
* `editExpense 2 t/Food` +
Edits the tag of the second expense in the Expense List to ‘Food’.

==== Deleting an expense : `deleteExpense`

Deletes the expense at the specified INDEX. The INDEX refers to the number in the displayed Expenses List which is next to
the name of the expense. +
*Alias:* `de` +
*Format:* `deleteExpense INDEX` +

Examples:

* `deleteExpense 1` +
Deletes the first expense in the displaying expense list from Expense Tracker.

==== Adding an allowance: `addAllowance`

Adds a new allowance record to ePiggy. +
*Alias:* `aa` +
*Format:* `addAllowance n/ALLOWANCE_NAME $/AMOUNT [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…`

Examples:

* `addAllowance n/From Mom $/20 t/School d/21/02/2019` +
Adds an allowance of $20 from Mom, tagged as School with the date as 21/02/2019.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Creating an allowance would automatically tag the entry with an `Allowance` tag. +
`Name` has to be alphanumeric with a length of less than 50 characters. +
`AMOUNT` has to be a valid amount greater than $0, and less than $999,999.99. +
`Date` follows the following format `dd/MM/yyyy`.
****
==== Editing an allowance : `editAllowance`

Edits an existing allowance in ePiggy at a specific `*INDEX`* . +
The *`INDEX`* refers to the number in the displayed Allowance & Expenses List which is next to the name of the allowance. Existing values of
the allowance will be changed according to the value of the parameters. +
*Alias:* `ea` +
*Format:* `editAllowance INDEX [n/ALLOWANCE_NAME] [$/AMOUNT] [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…`

Examples:

* `editAllowance 1 n/From Mom $10 t/Emergency` +
Edits the name, cost and tag of the first allowance in ePiggy to ‘From Mom’, ‘$10’ and ‘Emergency’ respectively.
* `editAllowance 2 $/22` +
Edits the amount of the second allowance in ePiggy to ‘$22’.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Only allowances can be edited using this command. To edit expenses, use the `editExpense` command.
****

==== Deleting an allowance : `deleteAllowance`

Deletes the allowance at the specified INDEX. The INDEX refers to the number in the displayed Allowance &
Expenses List which is next to
the name of the allowance. +
*Alias:* `da` +
*Format:* `deleteAllowance INDEX`

Examples:

* `deleteExpense 1` +
Deletes the first allowance in the displaying list from Expense Tracker.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Only allowances can be deleted using this command. To delete expenses, use the `deleteExpense` command.
****
==== Listing all expenses : `list`

Lists the expense records from newest to oldest. Use this to return to the default view after search/sort commands +
*Alias:* `l` +
*Format:* `list`

==== Listing all expenses in reverse : `reverseList`

Lists the expense records from oldest to newest. Use this to return to the default view after search/sort commands +
*Alias:* `rl` +
*Format:* `reverseList`

=== Filtering and Sorting Data

==== Finding an expense : `findExpense`

You can find any expense in the list by specifying either its name, tag, date, range of dates, amount or range of amount. +
*Alias:* `fe` +
*Format:* *`findExpense [n/NAME] [t/TAG] [d/DATE_RANGE] [$/AMOUNT RANGE]`* +

Examples:

* `fE n/McDonalds` +
Displays all entries with the name “McDonalds”.
* `fE t/FOOD` +
Displays all entries with the tag specified (in this case, it’s food).
* `fE d/02/01/2019` +
Displays all entries listed on 2nd Jan 2019.
* `fE d/02/01/2019:05/12/2020` +
Displays all entries listed in the range 2nd Jan 2019 to 5th Dec 2020 (both inclusive).
* `fE $/250` +
Displays all entries listed with the cost range of $250.
* `fE $/250:500` +
Displays all entries listed with the cost range of $250 to $500.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Searches and displays the expense along with its information, according to the user-specified command. +
Searching for names and tags is case-insensitive. Furthermore, it allows you to search for almost similar
words by applying the concept of Levenshtien distance, hence allowing small typos (limit fixed by an upper bound). +
If the entry is not found, it displays an appropriate error message. +
Date format is `dd/MM/yyyy` .
'findExpense` and `fE` are equivalent.
****

==== Sorting the expenses : `sortExpense`

The user can sort the expenses in the list by name, date added, amount in ascending or descending order. +
*Alias:* `se` +
*Format:* `sortExpense -[n/d/$]/`

Examples:

* `sE n/` +
Sorts all entries by name (in ascending order).
* `sE d/` +
Sorts all entries by date in descending order.
* `sE $/` +
Sorts all entries by amount in ascending order.

****
*Additional Information:* +
'sortExpense` and `sE` are equivalent.
****

=== Budgeting

// tag::addBudget[]
==== Adding a spending budget : `addBudget`

Adds a budget for the total expenses within the specified time period. The time period will be in terms of days,
and 1 day is the minimum a person can set a budget for. +
Budgets added are not allowed to overlap with existing budgets. +

[NOTE]
Budgets are considered to be overlapping if their active dates intersect each other.

*Alias:* `ab` +
*Format:* `addBudget $/AMOUNT p/TIME_PERIOD_IN_DAYS d/START_DATE`

Examples:

* `addBudget $/500 p/7 d/03/02/2019` +
Sets a total budget of $500 for each week starting from 3rd February 2019.

* `addBudget $/10000 p/15 d/01/01/2000` +
Sets a total budget of $10000 every 15 days starting from 1st January 2000.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Time period cannot exceed 1 million days. +
Budget does not take into account allowances as budget only accounts for expenses.
****

*Display status of budget:* +
ePiggy will show the status of the current budget whenever a new expense is added. +
// end::addBudget[]

// tag::editBudget[]
==== Editing the current budget : `editBudget`

Edits the current budget. A current budget must be present to use this command. +
Edited budget cannot overlap with other existing budgets. +

[NOTE]
Budgets are considered to be overlapping if their active dates intersect each other.

*Alias:* `eb` +
*Format:* `editBudget [$/AMOUNT] [p/TIME_PERIOD_IN_DAYS] [d/START_DATE]`

Examples:

* `editBudget $/1000 p/7 d/01/01/2000` +
Edits the current budget to $1000 for each week starting from 01/01/2000.

* `editBudget $/200 p/15` +
Edits the current budget to $200 for every 15 days starting from the budget's initial start date.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Time period cannot exceed 1 million days. +
Budget does not take into account allowances as budget only accounts for expenses.
****
// end::editBudget[]

// tag::deleteBudget[]
==== Deleting a budget : `deleteBudget`

Deletes the budget at the specified `INDEX`. The `INDEX` refers to the number in the displayed Budget List which is next to
the status of the budget. +
*Alias:* `db` +
*Format:* `deleteBudget INDEX`

Examples:

* `deleteBudget 1` +
Deletes the first budget in the Budget List.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Budget does not take into account allowances as budget only accounts for expenses.
****
// end::deleteBudget[]

=== Goal Setting
// tag::setGoal[]
==== Setting the savings goal : `setGoal`

Sets the item and the amount that the user wishes to save up for. +
*Alias:* `sg` +
*Format:* `setGoal n/ITEM_NAME $/AMOUNT`

Example:

* `setGoal n/nike shoes $/80` +
Sets the goal to a $80 Nike shoe.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Details about the current goal and the amount required to save up to hit the current goal
can be found on the User Interface.
****
// end::setGoal[]

// tag::report[]
=== Expense Report

==== Generate report : `report`

Generates a report of the given date, month, or year. The report consists of total inflow, total outflow, and
proportion of total expense and total allowance. +
*Alias:* `rp` +
*Format:* `report [d/DD/MM/YYYY]` Generates a report for specified date. +
*Format:* `report [d/MM/YYYY]` Generates a report for specified month. +
*Format:* `report [d/YYYY]` Generates a report for specified year. +
*Format:* `report` Generates a report of all records in ePiggy. +

[NOTE]
The message of conclusion under the chart will show only if you add at least one expense to ePiggy.

Examples:

* Example 1: `report` +
View the completed report of all the records.

image::report1.png[width="400"]
Figure of example 1: Completed report part 1.

image::report2.png[width="400"]
Figure of example 1: Completed report part 2.

***

* Example 2: `report d/10/04/2019` +
View the specified date report of 10 Apr 2019.

image::reportDay.png[width="500"]
Figure of example 2: Report for specified date.

***

* Example 3: `report d/04/2019` +
View the specified month report of Apr 2019.

image::reportMonth.png[width="500"]
Figure of example 3: Report for specified month.

***

* Example 4: `report d/2019` +
View the specified year report of 2019.

image::reportYear.png[width="500"]
Figure of example 4: Report for specified year.
// end::report[]

=== Miscellaneous

==== Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program. +
*Alias:* `ex` +
*Format:* `exit`

==== Saving the data

ePiggy's data is saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. +
There is no need to save manually.

=== Upcoming Features

// tag::v2.0[]
==== Register `[coming in v2.0]`

Allows you to register for an account in ePiggy, so that your account can store your ePiggy information. +

==== Login and Logout `[coming in v2.0]`

Allows you to log in and out of ePiggy using your username and password, if your account exists already.
This will keep your information safe. +
This feature will be implemented only after the `register` feature has been added. +

==== Encrypting data files `[coming in v2.0]`

You can choose to enable data encryption to secure your ePiggy information.

==== Share `[coming in v2.0]`

Allows you to share your expenses with others! ePiggy will send an email (which you input)
with an attachment of your personal `ePiggy` data in CSV format. +

==== Recommend future spendings `[coming in v2.0]`

Recommends steps you can take to keep to your budget. +
ePiggy will give you 2 recommendations. First, a daily spending limit. Next, the increase in allowance you need
if you intend to maintain your current spending habits. You can choose to adopt any of the 2 recommendations. +
// end::v2.0[]

== FAQ

*Q*: How do I transfer my data to another Computer? +
*A*: You can follow the steps below to transfer your data: +
1. Install _ePiggy_ in the other computer. +
2. Locate the empty 'data' folder which is in the same folder as the _ePiggy_ jar file. If there is no such folder,
run the ePiggy jar file and close it. +
3. Locate the file named _ePiggy.json_ in the _data_ folder from your previous computer. +
4. Transfer the file mentioned in _Step 3_ into the folder mentioned in _Step 2_. +
5. Your data should be transferred over successfully. You can run _ePiggy_ in your other computer to see the data.

== Command Summary

* *Add Allowance* : `addAllowance n/ALLOWANCE_NAME $/AMOUNT [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +
e.g. `addAllowance n/From Mom $/20 t/School d/21/02/2019`

* *Add Budget* : `addBudget $/AMOUNT p/TIME_PERIOD_IN_DAYS d/START_DATE` +
e.g.`addBudget $/500.00 p/7 d/01/02/2019`

* *Add Expense* : `addExpense n/EXPENSE_NAME $/COST [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +
e.g. `addExpense n/Chicken rice set $/5 t/Food d/21/02/2019`

* *Delete Allowance* : `deleteAllowance INDEX` +
e.g. `deleteAllowance 3

* *Delete Budget* : `deleteBudget INDEX` +
e.g.`deleteBudget 2`

* *Delete Expense* : `deleteExpense INDEX` +
e.g. `deleteExpense 3`

* *Edit Allowance* : `editAllowance INDEX [n/ALLOWANCE_NAME] [$/COST] [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +
e.g. `editAllowance 1 n/From Mom $10 t/Emergency`

* *Edit Budget* : `editBudget [$/AMOUNT] [p/TIME_PERIOD_IN_DAYS] [d/START_DATE]` +
e.g.`editBudget $/300.00 p/28`

* *Edit Expense* : `editExpense INDEX [n/EXPENSE_NAME] [$/COST] [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +
e.g. `editExpense 1 n/Pen $/1 t/Supplies`

* *Exit* : `exit`

* *Find Expenses* : `findExpense [n/NAME] [t/TAG] [d/DATE_RANGE] [$/AMOUNT RANGE]` +
e.g.`findExpense n/McDonalds`

* *Help* : `help`

* *List* : `list`

* *Report* : `report d/DD/MM/YYYY` +
e.g. `report d/21/03/2019`

* *Reverse list* : `reverseList`

* *Set Savings Goal* : `setGoal n/ITEM_NAME $/AMOUNT` +
e.g. `setGoal n/nike shoes $/80`

* *Sort Expenses* : `sortExpense [n/d/$]/` +
e.g.`sortExpense d/`

Commit message:

Add new filled UI image

docs/UserGuide.adoc, after:

= ePiggy - User Guide
:site-section: UserGuide
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:toc-title:
:toc-placement: preamble
:sectnums:
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
:xrefstyle: full
:experimental:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
endif::[]
:repoURL: https://github.com/CS2103-AY1819S2-W17-4/main

image::userguide.png[width="700"]

By: `Team A+ for CS2103T`       Since: `Feb 2019`      Last Updated: `April 2019`     Licence: `MIT`

== Introduction

image::userguideintroduction.gif[width="200", role="center"]

Welcome to *_ePiggy_*! *_ePiggy_* is a desktop application designed to inculcate good spending habits in students. +
Managing money is made much simpler for you with a simple interface and simple commands!
At the same time, *_ePiggy_* offers everything you need to cultivate good spending habits before
entering the workforce, from tracking expenses and managing budgets to setting goals! +

Interested? Click on the <<Quick Start>> to get started!

== Quick Start
To start using ePiggy, simply follow these steps:::
1. Ensure you have Java version `9` or later installed on your computer. +
2. Download the latest *`ePiggy.jar`* file from link:{repoURL}/releases[here]. +
3. Copy the file to the folder which you want to use as the home folder for your Expense Tracker. +
4. Double-click the *`ePiggy.jar`* file to start the app. +
5. The GUI will appear as per below upon launch.

image::Ui.png[width="760"]
_Figure 1. The user interface upon launch of application_

*Some sample commands you can try:*

* `addExpense n/Chicken Rice $/4 t/dinner d/01/02/2019` +
This command adds a new expense of $4 for Chicken Rice on 1st February.
* `addAllowance n/From Mum $/20 d/01/02/2019` +
This command adds a new allowance of $20 tagged as 'From Mum' on 1st February.
* `addBudget $/500 p/28 d/01/02/2019` +
This command adds a budget of $500 from 1st February 2019 to 28th February 2019 (28 days).

image::UiFilled.png[width="760"]
_Figure 2. The user interface after the above commands have been entered._
[[Features]]
== Features

====
*Command Format*

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be entered by the user. +
** E.g. For `addExpense n/EXPENSE_NAME`, `EXPENSE_NAME` is a parameter which can be used as `addExpense n/Chicken Rice`.
* Items in square brackets are optional. +
** E.g `n/EXPENSE_NAME [t/TAG]` can be used as `n/Chicken Rice t/School` or as `n/Chicken Rice`.
* Items with `…`​ after them can be used multiple times including zero times. +
** E.g. `[t/TAG]...` can be used as `{nbsp}` (i.e. 0 times), `t/school` (1 time), `t/hawker t/school` (2 times) etc.
* Parameters can be in any order. +
** E.g. If the command specifies `n/EXPENSE_NAME $/COST`, `$/COST n/EXPENSE_NAME` is also acceptable.
====

=== Basic Features
// tag::autocomplete[]
==== Auto complete :
Enter the first few letters of the command, and then press `Tab` key on the keyboard to auto complete the command. +
If the completed command is not what you want, delete the command. Enter the same letters again, and press `Tab`. Another command will show if the letters match another command. +

Example: enter letter 'a' and then press `Tab`, the command "addExpense n/ $/ t/ d/ " will show.

Delete the command, enter 'a' again and press `Tab`, the addBudget or addAllowance command will show.

[NOTE]
Enter 'as' and press `Tab`, *nothing will happen* because 'as' does not match any prefix of the command. Autocomplete does *not support
alias* and is *non-case sensitive*.

// end::autocomplete[]
==== Viewing help : `help`
Lists all the user commands with their syntax and descriptions. +
*Alias:* `hp` +
*Format:* `help`

==== Adding an expense : `addExpense`

Adds a new expense record to the Expense Tracker. +
*Alias:* `ae` +
*Format:* `addExpense n/EXPENSE_NAME $/COST [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +


Examples:

* `addExpense n/Chicken rice set $/5 t/Food d/21/02/2019` +
Adds an expense for a $5 chicken rice set, tagged as Food with the date as 21/02/2019.

* `addExpense n/Chicken rice set $/5 t/Food` +
Adds an expense for a $5 chicken rice set, tagged as Food dated as the current date, by default.

==== Editing an expense : `editExpense`

Edits an existing expense in ePiggy at a specific `*INDEX`* . +
The *`INDEX`* refers to the number in the displayed Expenses List which is next to the name of the expense. Existing values of
the expense will be changed according to the value of the parameters. +
*Alias:* `ee` +
*Format:* `editExpense INDEX [n/EXPENSE_NAME] [$/COST] [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +


Examples:

* `editExpense 1 n/Pen $1 t/Supplies` +
Edits the name, cost and tag of the first expense in the Expense List to ‘Pen’, ‘$1’ and ‘Supplies’ respectively.
* `editExpense 2 t/Food` +
Edits the tag of the second expense in the Expense List to ‘Food’.

==== Deleting an expense : `deleteExpense`

Deletes the expense at the specified INDEX. The INDEX refers to the number in the displayed Expenses List which is next to
the name of the expense. +
*Alias:* `de` +
*Format:* `deleteExpense INDEX` +

Examples:

* `deleteExpense 1` +
Deletes the first expense in the displaying expense list from Expense Tracker.

==== Adding an allowance: `addAllowance`

Adds a new allowance record to ePiggy. +
*Alias:* `aa` +
*Format:* `addAllowance n/ALLOWANCE_NAME $/AMOUNT [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…`

Examples:

* `addAllowance n/From Mom $/20 t/School d/21/02/2019` +
Adds an allowance of $20 from Mom, tagged as School with the date as 21/02/2019.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Creating an allowance would automatically tag the entry with an `Allowance` tag. +
`Name` has to be alphanumeric with a length of less than 50 characters. +
`AMOUNT` has to be a valid amount greater than $0, and less than $999,999.99. +
`Date` follows the following format `dd/MM/yyyy`.
****
==== Editing an allowance : `editAllowance`

Edits an existing allowance in ePiggy at a specific `*INDEX`* . +
The *`INDEX`* refers to the number in the displayed Allowance & Expenses List which is next to the name of the allowance. Existing values of
the allowance will be changed according to the value of the parameters. +
*Alias:* `ea` +
*Format:* `editAllowance INDEX [n/ALLOWANCE_NAME] [$/AMOUNT] [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…`

Examples:

* `editAllowance 1 n/From Mom $10 t/Emergency` +
Edits the name, cost and tag of the first allowance in ePiggy to ‘From Mom’, ‘$10’ and ‘Emergency’ respectively.
* `editAllowance 2 $/22` +
Edits the amount of the second allowance in ePiggy to ‘$22’.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Only allowances can be edited using this command. To edit expenses, use the `editExpense` command.
****

==== Deleting an allowance : `deleteAllowance`

Deletes the allowance at the specified INDEX. The INDEX refers to the number in the displayed Allowance &
Expenses List which is next to
the name of the allowance. +
*Alias:* `da` +
*Format:* `deleteAllowance INDEX`

Examples:

* `deleteExpense 1` +
Deletes the first allowance in the displaying list from Expense Tracker.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Only allowances can be deleted using this command. To delete expenses, use the `deleteExpense` command.
****
==== Listing all expenses : `list`

Lists the expense records from newest to oldest. Use this to return to the default view after search/sort commands +
*Alias:* `l` +
*Format:* `list`

==== Listing all expenses in reverse : `reverseList`

Lists the expense records from oldest to newest. Use this to return to the default view after search/sort commands +
*Alias:* `rl` +
*Format:* `reverseList`

=== Filtering and Sorting Data

==== Finding an expense : `findExpense`

You can find any expense in the list by specifying either its name, tag, date, range of dates, amount or range of amount. +
*Alias:* `fe` +
*Format:* *`findExpense [n/NAME] [t/TAG] [d/DATE_RANGE] [$/AMOUNT RANGE]`* +

Examples:

* `fE n/McDonalds` +
Displays all entries with the name “McDonalds”.
* `fE t/FOOD` +
Displays all entries with the tag specified (in this case, it’s food).
* `fE d/02/01/2019` +
Displays all entries listed on 2nd Jan 2019.
* `fE d/02/01/2019:05/12/2020` +
Displays all entries listed in the range 2nd Jan 2019 to 5th Dec 2020 (both inclusive).
* `fE $/250` +
Displays all entries listed with the cost range of $250.
* `fE $/250:500` +
Displays all entries listed with the cost range of $250 to $500.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Searches and displays the expense along with its information, according to the user-specified command. +
Searching for names and tags is case-insensitive. Furthermore, it allows you to search for almost similar
words by applying the concept of Levenshtien distance, hence allowing small typos (limit fixed by an upper bound). +
If the entry is not found, it displays an appropriate error message. +
Date format is `dd/MM/yyyy` .
'findExpense` and `fE` are equivalent.
****

==== Sorting the expenses : `sortExpense`

The user can sort the expenses in the list by name, date added, amount in ascending or descending order. +
*Alias:* `se` +
*Format:* `sortExpense -[n/d/$]/`

Examples:

* `sE n/` +
Sorts all entries by name (in ascending order).
* `sE d/` +
Sorts all entries by date in descending order.
* `sE $/` +
Sorts all entries by amount in ascending order.

****
*Additional Information:* +
'sortExpense` and `sE` are equivalent.
****

=== Budgeting

// tag::addBudget[]
==== Adding a spending budget : `addBudget`

Adds a budget for the total expenses within the specified time period. The time period will be in terms of days,
and 1 day is the minimum a person can set a budget for. +
Budgets added are not allowed to overlap with existing budgets. +

[NOTE]
Budgets are considered to be overlapping if their active dates intersect each other.

*Alias:* `ab` +
*Format:* `addBudget $/AMOUNT p/TIME_PERIOD_IN_DAYS d/START_DATE`

Examples:

* `addBudget $/500 p/7 d/03/02/2019` +
Sets a total budget of $500 for each week starting from 3rd February 2019.

* `addBudget $/10000 p/15 d/01/01/2000` +
Sets a total budget of $10000 every 15 days starting from 1st January 2000.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Time period cannot exceed 1 million days. +
Budget does not take into account allowances as budget only accounts for expenses.
****

*Display status of budget:* +
ePiggy will show the status of the current budget whenever a new expense is added. +
// end::addBudget[]

// tag::editBudget[]
==== Editing the current budget : `editBudget`

Edits the current budget. A current budget must be present to use this command. +
Edited budget cannot overlap with other existing budgets. +

[NOTE]
Budgets are considered to be overlapping if their active dates intersect each other.

*Alias:* `eb` +
*Format:* `editBudget [$/AMOUNT] [p/TIME_PERIOD_IN_DAYS] [d/START_DATE]`

Examples:

* `editBudget $/1000 p/7 d/01/01/2000` +
Edits the current budget to $1000 for each week starting from 01/01/2000.

* `editBudget $/200 p/15` +
Edits the current budget to $200 for every 15 days starting from the budget's initial start date.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Time period cannot exceed 1 million days. +
Budget does not take into account allowances as budget only accounts for expenses.
****
// end::editBudget[]

// tag::deleteBudget[]
==== Deleting a budget : `deleteBudget`

Deletes the budget at the specified `INDEX`. The `INDEX` refers to the number in the displayed Budget List which is next to
the status of the budget. +
*Alias:* `db` +
*Format:* `deleteBudget INDEX`

Examples:

* `deleteBudget 1` +
Deletes the first budget in the Budget List.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Budget does not take into account allowances as budget only accounts for expenses.
****
// end::deleteBudget[]

=== Goal Setting
// tag::setGoal[]
==== Setting the savings goal : `setGoal`

Sets the item and the amount that the user wishes to save up for. +
*Alias:* `sg` +
*Format:* `setGoal n/ITEM_NAME $/AMOUNT`

Example:

* `setGoal n/nike shoes $/80` +
Sets the goal to a $80 Nike shoe.

****
*Additional Information:* +
Details about the current goal and the amount required to save up to hit the current goal
can be found on the User Interface.
****
// end::setGoal[]

// tag::report[]
=== Expense Report

==== Generate report : `report`

Generates a report of the given date, month, or year. The report consists of total inflow, total outflow, and
proportion of total expense and total allowance. +
*Alias:* `rp` +
*Format:* `report [d/DD/MM/YYYY]` Generates a report for specified date. +
*Format:* `report [d/MM/YYYY]` Generates a report for specified month. +
*Format:* `report [d/YYYY]` Generates a report for specified year. +
*Format:* `report` Generates a report of all records in ePiggy. +

[NOTE]
The message of conclusion under the chart will show only if you add at least one expense to ePiggy.

Examples:

* Example 1: `report` +
View the completed report of all the records.

image::report1.png[width="400"]
Figure of example 1: Completed report part 1.

image::report2.png[width="400"]
Figure of example 1: Completed report part 2.

***

* Example 2: `report d/10/04/2019` +
View the specified date report of 10 Apr 2019.

image::reportDay.png[width="500"]
Figure of example 2: Report for specified date.

***

* Example 3: `report d/04/2019` +
View the specified month report of Apr 2019.

image::reportMonth.png[width="500"]
Figure of example 3: Report for specified month.

***

* Example 4: `report d/2019` +
View the specified year report of 2019.

image::reportYear.png[width="500"]
Figure of example 4: Report for specified year.
// end::report[]

=== Miscellaneous

==== Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program. +
*Alias:* `ex` +
*Format:* `exit`

==== Saving the data

ePiggy's data is saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. +
There is no need to save manually.

=== Upcoming Features

// tag::v2.0[]
==== Register `[coming in v2.0]`

Allows you to register for an account in ePiggy, so that your account can store your ePiggy information. +

==== Login and Logout `[coming in v2.0]`

Allows you to log in and out of ePiggy using your username and password, if your account exists already.
This will keep your information safe. +
This feature will be implemented only after the `register` feature has been added. +

==== Encrypting data files `[coming in v2.0]`

You can choose to enable data encryption to secure your ePiggy information.

==== Share `[coming in v2.0]`

Allows you to share your expenses with others! ePiggy will send an email (which you input)
with an attachment of your personal `ePiggy` data in CSV format. +

==== Recommend future spendings `[coming in v2.0]`

Recommends steps you can take to keep to your budget. +
ePiggy will give you 2 recommendations. First, a daily spending limit. Next, the increase in allowance you need
if you intend to maintain your current spending habits. You can choose to adopt any of the 2 recommendations. +
// end::v2.0[]

== FAQ

*Q*: How do I transfer my data to another Computer? +
*A*: You can follow the steps below to transfer your data: +
1. Install _ePiggy_ in the other computer. +
2. Locate the empty 'data' folder which is in the same folder as the _ePiggy_ jar file. If there is no such folder,
run the ePiggy jar file and close it. +
3. Locate the file named _ePiggy.json_ in the _data_ folder from your previous computer. +
4. Transfer the file mentioned in _Step 3_ into the folder mentioned in _Step 2_. +
5. Your data should be transferred over successfully. You can run _ePiggy_ in your other computer to see the data.

== Command Summary

* *Add Allowance* : `addAllowance n/ALLOWANCE_NAME $/AMOUNT [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +
e.g. `addAllowance n/From Mom $/20 t/School d/21/02/2019`

* *Add Budget* : `addBudget $/AMOUNT p/TIME_PERIOD_IN_DAYS d/START_DATE` +
e.g.`addBudget $/500.00 p/7 d/01/02/2019`

* *Add Expense* : `addExpense n/EXPENSE_NAME $/COST [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +
e.g. `addExpense n/Chicken rice set $/5 t/Food d/21/02/2019`

* *Delete Allowance* : `deleteAllowance INDEX` +
e.g. `deleteAllowance 3

* *Delete Budget* : `deleteBudget INDEX` +
e.g.`deleteBudget 2`

* *Delete Expense* : `deleteExpense INDEX` +
e.g. `deleteExpense 3`

* *Edit Allowance* : `editAllowance INDEX [n/ALLOWANCE_NAME] [$/COST] [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +
e.g. `editAllowance 1 n/From Mom $10 t/Emergency`

* *Edit Budget* : `editBudget [$/AMOUNT] [p/TIME_PERIOD_IN_DAYS] [d/START_DATE]` +
e.g.`editBudget $/300.00 p/28`

* *Edit Expense* : `editExpense INDEX [n/EXPENSE_NAME] [$/COST] [d/DATE] [t/TAG]…` +
e.g. `editExpense 1 n/Pen $/1 t/Supplies`

* *Exit* : `exit`

* *Find Expenses* : `findExpense [n/NAME] [t/TAG] [d/DATE_RANGE] [$/AMOUNT RANGE]` +
e.g.`findExpense n/McDonalds`

* *Help* : `help`

* *List* : `list`

* *Report* : `report d/DD/MM/YYYY` +
e.g. `report d/21/03/2019`

* *Reverse list* : `reverseList`

* *Set Savings Goal* : `setGoal n/ITEM_NAME $/AMOUNT` +
e.g. `setGoal n/nike shoes $/80`

* *Sort Expenses* : `sortExpense [n/d/$]/` +
e.g.`sortExpense d/`
